---
layout: essay
type: essay
published: true
title: Why Software Engineering
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-01-17
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

For the semester of Spring 2019 I chose to take ICS 314 for two reasons, the first obviously because it was a requirement, but the second reason was geared more to help me understand how to interact with others in larger scale projects. I am also hoping to gain a three skills from this course, retention, composure, and leadership. Being as it is the start of the second week in this course I am looking forward to working with the Professor, his assistant, and my fellow students. 

In the context of this class, by no means do I think the workload of it  will be the most I’ll ever see, but I do believe it will be the largest amount of work I have dealt with in a computer science course to date. I am excited by this idea because I want to know if this course will make or break my resolve to go into this field of study. I also want to know how I will be able to handle myself working with others on these potentially large projects. I also want to see the impact this course will have on me and how I will respond to each situation.   

The first Skill I wish to develop in this course is retention, one of my biggest fears in school is forgetting everything that I have learned. Part of this fear comes from receiving poor grades, and stemmed further to not being able to perform the way I should after a class that I take. I would like to say that I remember everything from each of my classes I’ve taken, but the reality of it is I won’t remember everything in all of my courses so for not only this course but all courses in general the number one skill I want to learn is retaining what that course taught me. 

The second skill I hope to develop is a calm composure, I want to be able to react to a stressful situation calmly and be able to produce a solid response. I want this class to introduce me for the situations a programer will face, to prepare me to take a issue and produce an accurate response with confidence. The last skill I with to earn through this course is leadership skills, since this course is based off of projects dealing with groups I want to learn how to work well with others, but I also want to learn how to take control and direct others to successfully finishing our objective. 
